# 14 - Control

**Feature Name**: Control <br />
**Start Date**: 2023-08-09 <br />
**Authors**: Emiliano Bonilla <br />
**Status**: Draft <br />

# 0 - Summary

# 1 - Vocabulary

# 2 - Motivation

# 3 - Philosophy

# 4 - Requirements

## 4.0 - Channel Alignment

## 4.1 - Control Authority

##

# 5 - Detailed Design

## 5.0 - Control Authority

This design introduces a new control mangement and primitive data type `Authority`. 
Authority is an 8-bit unsigned integer that defines a writer's control authority over
a specific channel. When multiple writers (A and B) attempt to write to the same 
channel concurrently, the following rules apply:

1. If writer A has a strictly higher control authority than writer B, writer A's
   write will be accepted and writer B's writes will be rejected. The reverse scenario
   also applies.
2. If writers A and B have the same control authority, both writes will be accepted.
   

## 5.0 - Removal of Event Channels in favor of Multi-Index Writers

## 5.1 - Control Authority

* Mutexed/channel guarded control gate
* Add and populate alignment fields of written series'
* Allow multi-index writes

Clearly define what Cesium's role is.

# 6 - Working Notes

# 6.0 - Solidifying Typescript Telem Implementations

Implementing and maintaining a separate cache pluto side doesn't make
a lot of sense NGL. We need to think about moving the cache entirely to the client
lib. Problem here is how do we deal with streaming. We need to have a better
understanding of what the live write pipeline looks like. This is particularly
relevant for subset data streaming.
